as the perfect hello Andre cots has
worked with elephants for 25 years and
knows the obvious behaviors that will
show the elephants are hearing the
infrasound Andre
even though these are rescued elephants
do you still see a change in behavior
when it's under storms approaching like
they would in the wild when they hear a
thunder storm they are more than likely
to turn the backsides together face into
the thunderstorm years art with a
spontaneous freeze it says there is a
secret message or something that happens
and they just stand still
after the spontaneous feature more than
I could find that they start chatting
amongst each other low rumbles if they
respond in that way to our thunderstorm
then that's proof in a way that they can
hear a part of the sound spectrum that
we can't even touch Susie absolutely
without a crystal gel
although the speaker is positioned close
to the elephants the infrasound it
produces will have the intensity of a
distant storm
the herd is busy feeding so Patrick is
looking for a definite change in
behavior Bruce I think we're ready to
play the speaker okay Patrick Audio and
two seconds it may seem strange but
because the cam fan is generating sounds
below our hearing threshold we can't
hear it but we can certainly see it as
air inside the van vibrates with sound
energy
the elephant's react immediately turning
to the speaker they're clearly reacting
to the sound but Patrick can't hear a
thing
that's incredible they've all stopped
and they've changed their behavior soon
as Bruce started playing that sound from
the campervan you can even hear them
vocalizing
there is fanning out it's absolutely
amazing how it completely changes their
behavior
Ruth it worked there's absolutely no
question about it and their ability to
determine the direction the sound was
coming from I was really impressed with
that the elephants are back feeling now
but virtually the entire herd turned and
faced our infrasonic speaker listening
in the secret sound of the storm
this hidden channel of infrasound could
explain a great mystery of the natural
world
how elephants know where to go when they
migrate vast distances in search of
water
you